#misc 
Math is a process of reflection, thought, and exploration, and reflects the belief systems and cultures of the practitioner just as does any process of reflection, thought and exploration. It is funny that few would argue that art, or literary criticism, does not reflect its creator - yet math, through its attempts to situate itself in relation to notions of permanence and truth, has ducked away from such analyses. 

I want to go further, and argue that distilling the process of math to terse, sequential notes as we do actually hinders the production of mathematical knowledge. It is common knowledge that to learn math does not involve simply reading a textbook front to back - students instead reconstruct the content of a text, creating their own mental models through examples, exercises, "breaking" theorems, wondering about loosening conditions, etc. Moreover, an experienced practitioner has their own personal collection of intuitions built through thought experiment, conversation, seminars, etc. Should these parts of the process not also have access to structured avenues for storage and exposition?

I propose making changes, at least to my own individual note-taking style, that fit into two levels. 

First, I will integrate informal discussion of ideas into my notes. This takes the shape of slogans, like the stacks project, and spiritual environments, which are like less restrictive slogans, in that they accommodate lengthier thoughts, feelings and sketches that are not meant to be catchy monikers, but are still informal.

Second, I will integrate timestamped discussion of feelings into my notes. This will include environments where I can describe how some concept feels and why, along with relevant context. This could take the form of a block linked to Nakayama's lemma that says "Feeling: frustration. I find this lemma frustratingly difficult to remember - it seems so flat and uninspiring, yet is such an important technical tool." Another use case I imagine is to embed descriptions of the process behind certain key steps in your proofs - imagine giving a reader the option to turn on a layer of tags that link to descriptions you've written about your inspiration for certain ideas, where you were when you had a certain breakthrough, where you learned a certain technique, how long a certain step took to come up with and how it felt, etc. 

My hope is that these examples are enough to convince oneself of the utility of such writing practices. But just to reiterate my argument: I believe that informal 'mathematical' information/ideas and emotional/social context/information about mathematics is pedagogically valuable, and as such should be included structurally in the canon of mathematical knowledge. This can start at the individual level. I suspect the idea that "valuable information should be included structurally" will not take much debate - nor the idea that informal and social information is indeed (at least pedagogically) valuable. It is more in caring enough to, after putting these two ideas together, actually follow through and adopt new writing practices that I foresee difficulty arising.
